# Description
Demonstration of Data Visualization (Narrative Vizualization) using D3.js 

# Demo URL
http://ujjalsaha.github.io

# Messaging. What is the message you are trying to communicate with the narrative visualization?

This is a Narrative Visualization project demonstrating the Interactive Slideshow Structure using the COVID-19 Dataset of United States and tries to establish sequence of hierarchies putting forward the observation in terms of various Scenes. This narrative visualization mainly explores the overall cases and daily new cases of COVID-19 pandemic within United States and presenting the analysis mainly answering the questions, how each state is affected by the COVID-19 case counts, what are the case count status on each states, were any states able to slow down the spread, what role did reopening from lockdown play on the case counts. 
 
·       Narrative Structure. Which structure was your narrative visualization designed to follow (martini glass, interactive slide show or drop-down story)? How does your narrative visualization follow that structure? (All of these structures can include the opportunity to "drill-down" and explore. The difference is where that opportunity happens in the structure.)

I have taken the approach of Interactive Slideshow structure to demonstrate the narrative visualization work. The way I am looking at the COVID-19 dataset and the way I have considered to present the visualization to the audience is a step by step slideshow process. The COVID-19 dataset can be complex to represent all information at once. A best possible approach I can think of, would be to show the progress of case counts as the dates progresses. Thus, making date a primary parameter for the entire visualization. The entire dataset were broken down into window of dates, and each date range showing the intermediate state of the country with COVID-19 case counts. This will help the user to make fine observations with the data by taking the user control on each slide and drilling down further before advancing to the next slide (next window of date). The interactive slideshow approach will also help the user to understand the information that author is trying to put forward at each individual stage and digest it before proceeding to the next slide. With the flexibility of user controls on each slide, user can drill down to see the information at more granular level. For e.g. in the slideshow, I have provided two section - new cases and overall cases of COVID-19, wherein each section has a map and a corresponding line chart grouped together. The map chart in each section will show new case counts and overall case counts respectively and corresponding line chart will show the case counts by date at country level. The map has a cross-filter, where selecting any state will bring up the line chart for that respective state case counts. With the click of a button on the line chart, user can come back at the country level data on the same line chart. This can be done n number of times back and forth as much as user wants to analyze the dataset and for any state for any scene. Tooltips and annotations will also provide the user with extra information while browsing through the slides. in my opinion, this approach would match best about how I (author of the narrative visualization) want the user to understand the narration and also give the user some flexibility to gather more info. I have always liked the approach of interactive communication even during trainings where I have the flexibility to pause a slide to explore more info and I feel this approach is a good way of storytelling to the audience.

 

# Visual Structure. What visual structure is used for each scene? How does it ensure the viewer can understand the data and navigate the scene? How does it highlight to urge the viewer to focus on the important parts of the data in each scene? How does it help the viewer transition to other scenes, to understand how the data connects to the data in other scenes?

With this interactive slideshow I have taken a story telling approach. The narrative visualization first starts with introducing the dataset and the explanation of various fields on the datasets. The key definitions under the header section of the webpage introduces the terms to the user, in case any user is unaware of any terminologies used in the narrative visualization. Next the webpage tells about the various scenes that the visualization will go through and significance of each scenes are also mentioned. The author also mentions about the key parameters that are acting as state change variables (reason behind change of each scenes). The author clearly explains on the webpage what each scene is meant for and how the scenes will be navigated. The author provides a detailed description of the navigation that user will be using for the entire interactive slideshow, explaining the navigations buttons, how the button will be activated and change colors from one scene to the next etc. The author also mentions about the triggers that will take place changing the scenes. Last but not the least, the webpage has a separate section under each scene, explaining it in more details, what the scene is supposed to do, what user should expect from the scene. Author also explains the various user controls in detail (such Cross-filters, changing view of charts, tooltips) so user is aware upfront about the drill down tasks that can be performed (allowed) on each scene. With all the details of navigations, user controls and scene description, author has intended to put the user in much more comfortable place, when the user actually starts navigating through the visualization. 

For the data representation, I have used map chart to display state level counts within the country combined with color intensities to represent how much each state is impacted with the case counts. The scale and legends in the map chart clearly shows the user about the distribution of values and color intensities used. For the continuous date based case counts I have used line charts and it would have been the best fit to represent continuous data.

# Scenes. What are the scenes of your narrative visualization? How are the scenes ordered, and why

The whole Visualization is based on four Scenes. The scenes are ordered per the date windows.

1.     Scene 1 (United States - COVID-19 Until April 2020): where author presents the situation with daily new cases and overall cases for the states of United States until April 2020 and lets user explore using the provided User controls within scene1. With help of annotations, author also presents fine observations. This scene depicts early state of COVID-19 pandemic in united states.

 

2.     Scene 2 (United States - COVID-19 Until May 2020): where author presents the situation with daily new cases and overall cases for the states of United States until May 2020 and lets user explore using the provided User controls within scene2. With help of annotations, author also presents fine observations. Author has put forward many observations in the scene showing some states are spiking up and rest are not. 

 
3.     Scene 3 (United States - COVID-19 Until June 2020): where author presents the situation with daily new cases and overall cases for the states of United States until Jun 2020 and lets user explore using the provided User controls within scene3. With help of annotations, author also presents fine observations. The scene show some states those were having a spike during May (in previous scene) aren’t having the same trend in June, which might indicate case counts for some states are slowly settling down. However, other states show spike in new cases. 

 
             4. Final Scene: Scene 4 (United States - COVID-19 Until July 2020): where author presents the situation with daily new cases and overall cases for the states of United States until July 2020 and lets user explore using the provided User controls within scene4. With help of annotations, author also presents fine observations. The scene shows how reopening from lockdown has affected the overall country statewise, how some states, although high in overall cases (New York, Illinois, New Jersey), are not reporting spikes in new cases and appears to be recovering, while other states are aggressively reporting new cases and continue to spike.

 
# Annotations. What template was followed for the annotations, and why that template? How are the annotations used to support the messaging? Do the annotations change within a single scene, and if so, how and why

Annotations have been extensively used throughout interactive slideshow in the narrative visualization. I tried to maintain a pattern in the annotation, so it doesn’t appear to be distracting as well as informative and appealing to the user. In the map chart I have used lines and texts to put the annotations displaying fine observation that changes with scenes. Keeping in mind here, annotations does change with change in scenes. Annotations are also provided in the line chart, where more information related to instance of line chart have been shared. Annotations will also be shown on state level line chart, thus dynamically changing from country view to state view in the line chart. Based on where a line graph is located within the chart, annotation will be displayed accordingly based on the coordinates of that line graph. 

# Parameters. What are the parameters of the narrative visualization? What are the states of the narrative visualization? How are the parameters used to define the state and each scene?

The scene changes from slide to slide based on the parameters such as date, that in turn changes the state of overall cases and new cases. The slide button triggers the change in parameters that brings up a new scene each time. The Chart area view refreshes with new visualization whenever a scene change event takes place. The state of the visualization, introduced by the change in date parameter, is the impact of COVID-19 on each state of United states during a particular date window. The parameters and states are described below 
·      Date:  Date is the parameter that changes with the change in scene. With changes in scenes, creates a trigger to change visualization scene and present COVID-19 data for a different window frame. This opens more opportunity for analysis and observation regarding impact by COVID-19 on last few months. The four scenes used on the visualization are dependent on dates as each scene changes the date window of the dataset, changing the state of the visualization.
·      Overall Positive Cases (Overall Case counts - Cumulative): Data visualization changes by change in scene, likewise state of overall case counts changes by change in the parameter date. Change in a scene triggers a change in date, which in turn changes overall case counts. Difference in overall cases opens up ways for in-depth analysis and studying impact of COVID-19 in terms of total cases.
·      Daily New Cases: State of daily new cases count also changes by change in the date parameter. Change in a scene triggers a change in date, which in turn changes new case counts and creates a different visualization. Difference in daily new cases opens up ways for in-depth analysis and studying impact of COVID-19 in terms of new rising cases.

 

# Triggers. What are the triggers that connect user actions to changes of state in the narrative visualization? What affordances are provided to the user to communicate to them what options are available to them in the narrative visualization?

The narrative visualization on the webpages explains about the triggers in details. The navigation button, when clicked, creates a trigger that changes the parameter (date) and a new scene is displayed. There are also certain triggers that changes the visualization while user is still on a specific slide. Those triggers are also mentioned under the user controls section in the webpage. User can click a state in the map that will trigger a change within the same scene and will bring up the line chart for that specific state. Clicking on the “Back” button will trigger another event, that will bring back the country view line chart. Hovering on the map and line charts will display the tooltips. The user controls on the webpage helps the user to understand all the trigger based events and what change can be expected by the user when a trigger is applied.
